docs: edit interpolation doc (#38687)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/interpolation.md

# Interpolation

> Interpolation allows you to incorporate calculated strings, or expressions, into HTML and within attribute assignments.

Reviewer: Let's add an additional sentence that at least explains what this topic contains. For example:

This topic describes common ways to include interpolation in your application.

I might also put in a sentence that describes *why* interpolation is important. For example:

With interpolation, you can dynamically change what appears in an application view, such as displaying a custom greeting that includes the user's name.

So if you put all this together, the new introduction would be:

```suggestion
Interpolation allows you to incorporate calculated strings, or expressions, into HTML and within attribute assignments. With interpolation, you can dynamically change what appears in an application view, such as displaying a custom greeting that includes the user's name.

This topic describes common ways to include interpolation in your application.
```

<div class="alert is-helpful">

See the <live-example></live-example> for all of the syntax and code snippets in this guide.

</div>

Interpolation refers to embedding expressions into marked up text.

> By default, interpolation uses as its delimiter the double curly braces, `{{` and `}}`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, interpolation uses double curly braces `{{` and `}}` as delimiters.
```
This change makes the sentence a little tighter and more direct.

> In the following snippet, `{{ currentCustomer }}` is an example of interpolation.

Reviewer: The challenge here is that we are showing how interpolation works, but we aren't saying anything about *where* we define `currentCustomer`. Could we update this to reflect this? Something like:

To illustrate how interpolation works, consider an Angular component that contains a `currentCustomer` variable:

`let currentCustomer = "Dave"`

You can use interpolation to display the value of this variable in the corresponding component template:

`Welcome, {{ currentCustomer }}!`

> In the following snippet, `{{ currentCustomer }}` is an example of interpolation.

Reviewer: A thought: We could add some section headings here:

## Displaying values with interpolation

Later

## Resolving expressions with interpolation

What do you think?

Author: Great idea!

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="interpolation-example1" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Angular replaces `currentCustomer` with the string value of the corresponding component property.

In the following example, Angular evaluates the `title` and `itemImageUrl` properties to display some title text and an image.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="component-property" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

> More generally, the text between the braces is a **template expression** that Angular first **evaluates** and then **converts to a string**.

Reviewer: I think we should avoid using quotation marks, bold, and italics to emphasize parts of a sentence. In this case, **template expression** is okay, because it is a term. (Though a link to a definition might be even better!) 

```suggestion
More generally, the text between the braces is a **template expression** that Angular first evaluates and then converts to a string.
```

The following interpolation illustrates the point by adding two numbers:

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="convert-string" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Expressions can also invoke methods of the host component such as `getVal()` in the following example:

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="invoke-method" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

Angular evaluates all expressions in double curly braces, converts the expression results to strings, and links them with adjacent literal strings.

> Finally, Angular assigns this composite interpolated result to an **element or directive property**.

Reviewer: If you read the previous paragraphs, you'll find that we have said variations of these sentences several times already. I wonder if we could consolidate and say:

With interpolation, Angular performs the following tasks:

1. Evaluates all expressions in double curly braces.
2. Converts the expression results to strings.
3. Links the results to any adjacent literal strings.
4. Assigns the composite to an element or directive property.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

> If you'd like to use something other than `{{` and `}}`, you can configure the interpolation delimiter via the [interpolation](api/core/Component#interpolation) option in the `@Component()` metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure the interpolation delimiter with the [interpolation](api/core/Component#interpolation) option in the `@Component()` metadata.
```

Just a bit more concise.

</div>

## Template expressions

A template **expression** produces a value and appears within double curly braces, `{{ }}`.

> Angular executes the expression and assigns it to a property of a binding target; the target could be an HTML element, a component, or a directive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Angular resolves the expression and assigns it to a property of a binding target. The target could be an HTML element, a component, or a directive.
```
I love semicolons; unfortunately, in most technical documentation the user is better served with two smaller sentences. (Yes, I wrote the preceding sentence that way on purpose. :) )

In `{{1 + 1}}`, interpolation braces, `{{ }}`, surround the template expression `1 + 1`.
This is a special syntax that Angular converts into a *property binding*.
In property binding, a template expression appears in quotes to the right of the&nbsp;`=` symbol as in `[property]="expression"`.

> 

Reviewer: I would move the other sections that talk about {{ 1 + 1 }} in the preceding section and move it to here. We're basically repeating ourselves, and I think the section that has some code examples reads better.

### Syntax

Template expressions are similar to JavaScript.

> Many JavaScript expressions are legal template expressions, with a few exceptions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Many JavaScript expressions are legal template expressions, with the following exceptions.
```

> # Interpolation

Reviewer 2: I would lean towards saying "Text interpolation" here to be more specific.

> Interpolation allows you to incorporate calculated strings, or expressions, into HTML and within attribute assignments.
> With interpolation, you can dynamically change what appears in an application view, such as displaying a custom greeting that includes the user's name.

Reviewer 2: Maybe something along the lines of
```suggestion
Text interpolation allows you to incorporate dynamic string values into your HTML templates.
Angular automatically updates text interpolation expressions based on your application's state.
```
* I would not bother with explicitly mentioning attributes at this point. The majority of interpolation uses are for text content, so I would start with that and then later be like "oh and it works in assignments too". 
* I might change the second sentence here to make Angular the actor instead of "you" since Angular is the one keeping things updated).

Reviewer: I don't mind the rewrite of the first sentence ('Test interpoloation...').

Regarding the second sentence, it's always better to put the focus on the reader, instead of the product. So I like Kapunahele's original sentence.

Author: Ok, updated first sentence. Thank you both!

## Expression context

> The *expression context* is typically the _component_ instance.

Reviewer: Should we define what an expression context is in general?

Interpolated expressions have a context--a particular part of the application to which the expression belongs. Typically, this context is the _component_ instance.

> In the following snippet, the `recommended` within double curly braces and the `itemImageUrl2` in quotes refer to properties of the `AppComponent`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following snippet, the expression `{{ recommended }}` and the expression `"itemImageUrl2"` refer to properties of the `AppComponent`.
```

Author: I had to check on this but the expression doesn't include the curly braces or the quotes. How about this?

> In the following snippet, the expression `recommended` and the expression `itemImageUrl2` refer to properties of the `AppComponent`.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="component-context" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

> An expression may also refer to properties of the _template's_ context such as a [template input variable](guide/built-in-directives#template-input-variables) or a [template reference variable](guide/template-reference-variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An expression can also refer to properties of the _template's_ context such as a [template input variable](guide/built-in-directives#template-input-variables) or a [template reference variable](guide/template-reference-variables).
```
I'm old school. I prefer `can` or `might` over `may`.

> The following example uses a template input variable of `let customer`.

Reviewer: Is it `let customer` or `customer`?

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="template-input-variable" header="src/app/app.component.html (template input variable)"></code-example>

This next example features a template reference variable, `#customerInput`.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="template-reference-variable" header="src/app/app.component.html (template reference variable)"></code-example>

The context for terms in an expression is a blend of the _template variables_, the directive's _context_ object (if it has one), and the component's _members_.

> If you reference a name that belongs to more than one of these namespaces, the template variable name takes precedence, followed by a name in the directive's _context_, and, lastly, the component's member names.

Reviewer: I would put this in an ordered list.
```suggestion
If you reference a name that belongs to more than one of these namespaces, Angular applies applies the following logic to determine the context:
1. The template variable name.
2. A name in the directive's _context_.
3. The component's member names.
```

Or something like this, anyway. :)

The previous example presents such a name collision. The component has a `customer`
property and the `*ngFor` defines a `customer` template variable.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

The `customer` in `{{customer.name}}` refers to the template input variable, not the component's property.

Template expressions cannot refer to anything in the global namespace, except `undefined`.
They can't refer to `window` or `document`.
Additionally, they can't call `console.log()` or `Math.max()` and they are restricted to referencing members of the expression context.

</div>

> ## Expression guidelines

Reviewer: How about, for consistency, we say:

## Expression best practices

> When using template expressions follow these guidelines:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using template expressions, follow these best practices:
```

* **Conciseness**

>   Generally, use property names or method calls should be the norm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Use property names or method calls whenever possible.
```

  Keep application and business logic in the component, where it is easier to develop and test.

* **Quick execution**

>   Angular executes template expressions after every change detection cycle.

Reviewer: Add a link to `change detection cycle`?

Author: Is the glossary for change detection OK? I don't see where we have info particularly on the change detection cycle, but maybe I missing something? I thought we had this, but maybe it is spread throughout different docs.

https://angular.io/guide/glossary#change-detection

Reviewer: I think a link to the glossary is fine!

>   Change detection cycles are triggered by many asynchronous activities such as promise resolutions, HTTP results, timer events, key presses and mouse moves.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Many asynchronous activities trigger change detection cycles, such as promise resolutions, HTTP results, timer events, key presses and mouse moves.
```
Switching from passive to active voice.

* **No visible side effects**

  According to Angular's [unidirectional data flow policy](guide/glossary#unidirectional-data-flow), a template expression should not change any application state other than the value of the target property.
  Reading a component value should not change some other displayed value.
  The view should be stable throughout a single rendering pass.

  <div class="callout is-important">
    <header>Idempotent expressions reduce side effects</header>

    An [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence) expression is free of side effects and improves Angular's change detection performance.
    In Angular terms, an idempotent expression always returns *exactly the same thing* until one of its dependent values changes.

    Dependent values should not change during a single turn of the event loop.
    If an idempotent expression returns a string or a number, it returns the same string or number if you call it twice consecutively.
    If the expression returns an object, including an `array`, it returns the same object *reference* if you call it twice consecutively.

  </div>

  <div class="alert is-important">

>   There is one exception to this behavior that applies to `*ngFor`. `*ngFor` has `trackBy` functionality that can deal with referential inequality of objects when iterating over them.

Reviewer: Is there a more user friendly/less tech-y way of saying "referential inequality"? Just wondering.

Interpolated expressions have a context&mdash;a particular part of the application to which the expression belongs.
Typically, this context is the component instance.

In the following snippet, the expression `recommended` and the expression `itemImageUrl2` refer to properties of the `AppComponent`.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="component-context" header="src/app/app.component.html"></code-example>

An expression can also refer to properties of the _template's_ context such as a [template input variable](guide/built-in-directives#template-input-variables) or a [template reference variable](guide/template-reference-variables).

The following example uses a template input variable of `customer`.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="template-input-variable" header="src/app/app.component.html (template input variable)"></code-example>

This next example features a template reference variable, `#customerInput`.

<code-example path="interpolation/src/app/app.component.html" region="template-reference-variable" header="src/app/app.component.html (template reference variable)"></code-example>

> The context for terms in an expression is a blend of the _template variables_, the directive's _context_ object (if it has one), and the component's _members_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The context against which expression evaluates is the union of the _template variables_, the directive's _context_ object (if it has one), and the component's _members_.
```
More technical terms here

If you reference a name that belongs to more than one of these namespaces, Angular  applies the following logic to determine the context:

1. The template variable name.
1. A name in the directive's _context_.
1. The component's member names.

The previous example presents such a name collision. The component has a `customer`
property and the `*ngFor` defines a `customer` template variable.

<div class="alert is-helpful">

The `customer` in `{{customer.name}}` refers to the template input variable, not the component's property.

Template expressions cannot refer to anything in the global namespace, except `undefined`.
They can't refer to `window` or `document`.
Additionally, they can't call `console.log()` or `Math.max()` and they are restricted to referencing members of the expression context.

</div>

## Expression best practices

When using template expressions, follow these best practices:

> * **Conciseness**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* **Use short expressions**
```
Maybe simpler terminology?

  Use property names or method calls whenever possible.
  Keep application and business logic in the component, where it is easier to develop and test.

* **Quick execution**

  Angular executes template expressions after every [change detection](guide/glossary#change-detection) cycle.
  Many asynchronous activities trigger change detection cycles, such as promise resolutions, HTTP results, timer events, key presses and mouse moves.

  Expressions should finish quickly to keep the user experience as efficient as possible, especially on slower devices.
  Consider caching values when their computation requires greater resources.

* **No visible side effects**

>   According to Angular's [unidirectional data flow policy](guide/glossary#unidirectional-data-flow), a template expression should not change any application state other than the value of the target property.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  According to Angular's [unidirectional data flow model](guide/glossary#unidirectional-data-flow), a template expression should not change any application state other than the value of the target property.
```
I would say "model" instead of "policy" since this is really just describing the way Angular is built rather than a prescription of what people should do
